TT-13174 Operator and Sync and Charts release (#5460)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/tyk-stack/tyk-operator/installing-tyk-operator.md

- Kubernetes Cluster Admin rights for installing [CustomResourceDefinitions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/custom-resources/custom-resource-definitions/)
- [cert-manager v1.8+](https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/kubectl/). Check [cert-manager installation guide](#installing-cert-manager) if you do not have it.
- Tyk Gateway or Tyk Dashboard v3+. Check [Required Tyk configurations](#configuring-tyk) for necessary configurations.
- Tyk Operator license key. Starting from Tyk Operator v1.0, a valid [license key](#tyk-operator-license) is required.

{{< note success >}}
###### **Note**  

Tyk Operator supports any Tyk installation whether it is on Tyk Cloud, Hybrid, or self-managed. You only need to make sure that the control plane URL is accessible by Tyk Operator.
{{< /note >}}

{{< note success >}}
###### **Obtain a license key**

Starting from Tyk Operator v1.0, a license key is required to use the Tyk Operator. [Sign up here](https://tyk.io/sign-up), and choose “Get in touch” to receive a guided evaluation of the Tyk Operator and your temporary license.
{{< /note >}}

> {{< button_left href="https://tyk.io/sign-up" color="green" content="Free Trial" >}}

Reviewer: I actually took this statement from https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-docs/blob/87ac38ce38cebfd3dd988c32cb25dba2861f7460/tyk-docs/content/getting-started/quick-start/tyk-k8s-demo.md?plain=1#L33-L34. I am not sure if it is intended as is for some purposes or not

If you are using [Tyk Stack]({{<ref "product-stack/tyk-charts/tyk-stack-chart">}}), [Tyk Control Plane]({{<ref "product-stack/tyk-charts/tyk-control-plane-chart">}}), or [Tyk Open Source Chart]({{<ref "product-stack/tyk-charts/tyk-oss-chart">}}), you can install Tyk Operator alongside other Tyk components by setting value `global.components.operator` to `true`.

> Starting from Tyk Operator v1.0, a license key is required to use the Tyk Operator. You can provide it while installing Tyk Stack or Tyk OSS helm chart by setting `global.license.operator` field. You can also set license key via a Kubernetes secret using `global.secrets.useSecretName` field. The secret should contain a key called `OperatorLicense`

Author: @komalsukhani how about control plane chart?

Reviewer 2: Opps missed control plane chart. I will update this part.

### Option 2: Installing Tyk Operator via stand-alone Helm Chart

If you prefer to install Tyk Operator separately, follow this section to install Tyk Operator using Helm.

#### Step 1: Create tyk-operator-conf secret

> Tyk Operator configurations can be set using `envVars` field of helm chart.

Author: ```suggestion
Tyk Operator configurations can be set using `envVars` field of helm chart. See the table below for a list of expected environment variable names and example values.
```

```yaml
envVars:
  - name: TYK_OPERATOR_LICENSEKEY
    value: "{YOUR_LICENSE_KEY}"
  - name: TYK_HTTP_INGRESS_PORT

>     value: "8080"

Author: Please list all the mandatory envVars in the example

##### Helm configurations

> | Key                                         | Type   | Default                                |

Author: @komalsukhani please add license key configuration here too

| replicaCount                                | int    | `1`                                    |
| resources                                   | object | `{}`                                   |
| serviceMonitor                              | bool   | `false`                                |
| webhookPort                                 | int    | `9443`                                 |

## Upgrading Tyk Operator

### Upgrading from v0.x to v1.0+

Starting from Tyk Operator v1.0, a valid license key is required for the Tyk Operator to function. If Tyk Operator is
upgraded from v0.x versions to one of v1.0+ versions, Tyk Operator needs a valid license key that needs to be
provided during upgrade process. This section describes how to set Tyk Operator license key to make sure Tyk Operator
continues functioning.

{{< note >}}
When upgrading Tyk Operator between licensed versions, follow the standard upgrade procedure described under 
[Upgrading Tyk Operator]({{<ref "tyk-stack/tyk-operator/installing-tyk-operator#upgrading-tyk-operator-and-crds">}}) section.
It is important to note that this process differs if transitioning from an unlicensed to a licensed version.
{{< /note >}}

> To provide the license key for Tyk Operator, Kubernetes secret used to configure Tyk Operator (typically named tyk-operator-conf as described above) requires an additional field called `TYK_OPERATOR_LICENSEKEY`. Populate this field with your Tyk Operator license key. 

Author: @komalsukhani @buraksekili Can I set through global.license.operator or global.secrets.useSecretName field during upgrade?

Reviewer 2: Yes

Author: So user can use the global field with tyk-operator chart too is it?

```suggestion
To provide the license key for Tyk Operator, you can set through `global.license.operator` or `global.secrets.useSecretName` field during upgrade. You can also update the Kubernetes secret used to configure Tyk Operator (typically named tyk-operator-conf as described above) with an additional field called `TYK_OPERATOR_LICENSEKEY`. Populate this field with your Tyk Operator license key. 
```

Reviewer 2: No. `global` field is only part of umbrella charts. 
In the operator chart, they can set it only via `envVars` or in the operator secret.
